[COMSUP-229] EF fetch caching (#972)
edgio-docs/edgio-docs: src/guides/v7/edge_functions/caching.md

---
title: Edge Function Caching
---

Caching fetch requests within your edge function can reduce the load on your origins and deliver content faster to your users. It may also mitigate timeout issues due to an edge function exceeding the [walltime limit](/guides/edge_functions#limitations).

> In this section, we'll cover how to use the caching options as part of the `fetch()` method. These options are specified per fetch request and are completely separate from the caching options specified in {{ROUTES_FILE}}.

Reviewer: We should update this paragraph to indicate that this guide also covers default caching behavior for fetch requests and how origin cache directives affect caching.

## Order of Operations {/* order-of-operations */}

> When a fetch request is made, the CDN will first check the cache for a matching response. If a matching response is found, it will be served from the cache. If no matching response is found, the request will be sent to the origin and the response will be cached based on one of the following scenarios:

Reviewer: Suggestion: Consider using `cached` instead of `matching`. 
```suggestion
When a fetch request is made, the CDN will first check for a cached response. If found, it will be served from the cache. Otherwise, the request will be sent to the origin. {{ PRODUCT }} will cache the response when any of the following conditions are met:
```

> - The caching options specified in the `edgio` object.

Reviewer: Suggestion: Link `caching options` to the Caching Options section. 
Suggestion: Consider renaming caching options to caching properties.

Reviewer: Suggestion: If the suggestion for the preceding paragraph is adopted, then we will need to update the verbiage for each of these bullet points.

- The `Cache-Control` header of the origin response.

> - The default caching policy of 5 minutes if no caching options are specified.

Reviewer: We should clarify all of the conditions required before the default caching policy takes effect.

From the Cache Behavior of Subrequests section:
Edge function subrequests are cached at the edge for 5 minutes under the following conditions:

    The response from the origin does not include a Cache-Control header.
    The response is deemed cacheable based on our default caching policy.

- `stale_while_revalidate`: Specifies the amount of time a stale response is served while a revalidation request is made in the background. This value is also set as a duration string similar to `max_age`. This setting overrides the `stale-while-revalidate` directive in the `Cache-Control` header of the origin response if present.
- `tags`: Allows you to specify a space-separated list of tags for the cached object, which can later be used for cache purging as [surrogate keys](/guides/performance/caching/purging#surrogate-key). Each tag should be a string without spaces.
- `bypass_cache`: A boolean value that, when set to `true`, bypasses the cache for the fetch request, ensuring the request is sent directly to the origin and the response is not stored in the cache.

These caching options provide you with granular control over how your fetch requests are cached and served, allowing you to optimize the performance of your edge function.

> ### Cache Behavior of Subrequests {/* cache-behavior-of-subrequests */}

Reviewer: Do we still need this section?
If so, then we should remove the redundant info.
We should also rename this section.
We should also change all references to subrequests to fetch requests.

Author: I left this section, renamed it, and linked to it from the order of operations section. I wasn't sure that I wanted this additional detail under OoO.
